# MasterThesis
OpenMP is now used by many software developers; it offers a  user-friendly interface for parallelization. However, efficient  parallelization using OpenMP requires a concrete knowledge about data  communication and memory access patterns. DiscoPoP(Discovery of  Potential Parallelism) is a tool developed by Parallel Programming  Laboratory at Technical University of Darmstadt. It dynamically profiles  data dependences in sequential programs and programs parallelized using  Pthread library. Unfortunately, it lacks support for OpenMP. The main  goal of this thesis is to extend DiscoPoP to support profiling programs  that are parallelized with OpenMP. Inaddition, we extract data  communication information such as data size, time-stamp and frequency of  data communication in programs. To extract the information we need to  determine communicating threads and discover memory accesses in the  program. In our approach, we instrument the program and inject  customized function calls before memory access operations.  Instrumentation functions collect the required information at runtime.  Based on this information, we create the communication patterns of  threads. Extracted patterns shall be used to map threads to different  cores and synchronize them efficiently. That would lead to improvements  of energy and time efficiency by reducing the communication overhead.  However, size of the extracted information becomes bigger during  profiling which creates a runtime and memory overhead challenge. To  resolve this overhead, we propose two methods. The first method uses  regression analysis at runtime to generate the timeseries of  communications based on the previous communications. The second method  profiles thread communications only in certain time frames. Finally, we  evaluate our approach by asserting the correctness of the instrumented  program. For assertion we compare the output of the instrumented code  with the original one.
